hi everyone welcome back to the channel
uh today we're going to do a deep dive
on CFA and this is going to be
specifically through the lens of a
system design interview so at a high
level CFA is a event streaming platform
and it can be used either as a message
cue or as a stream processing system now
why does CFA matter at all well
according to their website it's used by
80% of the Fortune 100 you can actually
see some of those logos on your screen
now these are all companies that use
Kafka and according to us at hello
interview it's one of the top five
technologies that we think you should
familiarize yourself with in order to
Ace those upcoming system design
interviews now my goal here is to give
you just enough information to be
comfortable knowing when to use CFA in
your interviews and to have enough depth
importantly to be able to speak in
detail about some of the trade-offs
necessary to impress your interviewer so
the way that we're going to do this is
we're going to go through four sections
I'm going to lead with a motivating
example uh then we're going to give an
overview on Kafka it be pretty high
level I'll talk about when you should
use it in an interview and then
importantly everything that you need to
know in order to show that depth in an
interview
context Now quickly for those who may be
new to the channel I'm Evan I'm a former
meta staff engineer and interviewer I've
conducted many hundreds of interviews
and nowadays I'm the co-founder of hello
interview which is a site that helps
software Engineers prepare for their
upcoming interviews via free educational
resources as well as paid mocks with
current or former Fang interviewers
and so lastly if videos aren't your
thing I've linked a written guide in the
description as well uh and this is where
I go into all the same topics I
discussed in the video just in written
form so you can head over and check that
out if that's something that you prefer
uh you'll see all of the other great
written content that we have there on
the site as well so without further Ado
let's jump into
it when we talk about Kafka I find it
useful to start with a motivating
example and I'm going to lean on what is
my favorite sport and my favorite
competition in the world cup so shout
out to everybody else that might be
listening that similarly loves soccer or
football but for this example we can
imagine that we're running a website
that's going to provide realtime event
updates on each of the games so every
time a goal is scored or a player is
booked a substitution is made we're
going to update our website with the
latest
information now the way that this works
is that events when they occur are
placed on a queue we call the server or
the process that's responsible for
placing these events on the Queue the
producer that terminology is important
the producer might just be somebody with
a laptop who's sitting at each of the
games now on the other end we have a
server that reads Events off of the
queue and updates our website we call
this guy our consumer now our website is
working great through the first handful
of games our events are being processed
in order they're updating our website
and users are really loving our product
but all of a sudden FIFA throws a wrench
in our project uh they decided that they
want to expand our hypothetical World
Cup from 48 teams to a thousand teams
and they're also going to start all of
the games at the exact same time so now
the number of events has increased
significantly and this single server
here that we have that's processing or
responsible for holding our events in
the queue is really struggling to keep
up we need to figure out how we can
scale
this and so with too many events on the
Queue that server is running out of
space and the solution is one that
you've probably read plenty about as
you've been studying for system design
uh and that's to scale horizontally or
to put it more simply we're just going
to add more servers and so in this
diagram I have two additional servers
that's great you could imagine that we
have three four five six it can scale
largely indefinitely um but we have a
new problem
and that's that as a producer produces
an event if we're going to randomly
distribute these events across the
servers we'd end up with a mess on our
hands goals are going to be scored
before the match even started players
will be booked for files that they never
committed and this is because the
consumer is just reading off of both of
these cues and there's no way for us to
maintain the Order anymore you can see
this example if it read the sub in the
83rd minute before the goal in the 80th
minute then our events would be out of
date and so now that new problem
events are not processed in the correct
order and so the solution to this is
that we can distribute the items in our
que based on the game that they're
associated with so for example this top
Q is going to have everything from that
Brazil Argentina game and this Q down
here will have everything from the
France game this way all those events
from a single game can make we can be
sure that they're processed in order
because they exist on the same queue so
we can't guarantee that this 81st minute
go from France happens after the 80th
minute goal from Argentina but that's
okay because what we really care about
is that this event happens before this
event and this right here is one of the
fundamental ideas behind CFA and it's
that in order to scale messages sent and
received through Kafka require a user
specified distribution
strategy uh basically the user needs to
specify how we distribute or partition
events across our different partitions
so this is working well but we've run
into a third problem and the third
problem is that we've scaled to so many
events or so many cues here and our
producers are producing so many events
that our consumer can no longer keep up
the consumer feels like it's uh what's
the saying it's it has its mouth open at
the end of a fire hose it can't drink
fast enough and so we have another
logical solution there which is that
we're going to add more consumer
consumers but if we were to just add
more consumers then the problem is
consumer one might read the goal from
Argentina and consumer 2 might read that
same goal from Argentina maybe even they
do it around the same time and then our
website ends up with two of the same
events and our users think that
Argentina scored two goals which can't
possibly have been the case we just
messed up and so the solution is
something that Kafka calls consumer
groups and with a consumer group each
event is guaranteed to only be processed
by one consumer in the group so we can
take these three consumers we can call
these three individual servers either
physical or virtual we can group them
into a Kafka consumer group and this
makes sure that each of these events is
only going to be processed by one of
these consumers in the
group now the last twist that I'm going
to throw at you before we're done with
this motivating example is that all of a
sudden FIFA decided that they want to
expand this hypothetical World Cup to
even more Sports something like
basketball uh but we don't want our
soccer website to cover basketball
events and we don't want our basketball
website to cover soccer events so we
introduce A New Concept that's called
topics so let's look at that
here now each event is going to be
associated with a topic and consumers
will subscribe to a specific topic so
therefore our consumers who update the
soccer website only will consume from
our soccer topic and the consumers that
update our basketball website will only
consume from our basketball topic so our
consumer groups can specify the topic
that they consume from and likewise our
producers when they produce something
need to specify the topic that they want
to write to and then within the topic we
can have multiple servers and multiple
partitions so what we've described here
is basically the linear reasoning that
gets you to Kafka and a Kafka cluster
and so from here we're going to break
down uh or kind of move away from this
abstract motivating example and talk
about actual Kafka and the terminology
that Kafka uses in a bit more detail
without this layer of
abstraction all right so as we went
through that motivating example we
introduced a bunch of key terms I want
to take a moment to introduce a couple
more and really just kind of solidify a
few of the ones that we mentioned via
the example so the first term here is a
broker and a broker is simply a server
it can be physical or virtual but Kafka
clusters are made up of these Brokers
these sets of servers and what these
servers do what these Brokers do is that
they hold those cues so they're
responsible for holding the cues here
now the cues themselves are actually
called partitions in CFA and what they
are is an ordered immutable that's
important they can't change sequence of
messages that we append to you can think
of them just like a log file it's a log
file that exists on disk that we append
messages to too and so each broker each
server can have multiple of these
partitions that's totally fine and then
the next concept that we talked about
briefly were these topics and so
importantly these are just logical
groupings of partitions and so when you
publish a message you publish it to a
topic when you consume a message you
consume it from a topic um a question
that I get often and that confuses folks
is what's the difference between a topic
and a partition and so I want to make
this as clear as possible and that's
that a topic is just a logical grouping
of messages it's a grouping that exists
in code where a partition is a physical
grouping they're actually the separate
log files that exist on disk and so a
topic can have multiple partitions and
topics are just ways of organizing your
data while partitions are ways of
scaling your data so hopefully that
makes the distinction between these two
relatively clear and then last up the
easy ones producers and consumers uh
producers of course write the messages
or records to topics consumers read them
we have our producers and our consumers
here hopefully that part was relatively
clear so let's zoom in a little bit now
and let's look under the hood let's get
rid of the abstract and let's talk about
exactly what happens in a life cycle of
a message uh through Kafka through a
Kafka
cluster and so the very first thing that
happens is a producer is going to create
or publish a message well what is a
message first off I'm going to use the
term message because message cues we're
familiar with with that terminology and
I want to remain consistent regardless
the technology but CFA for what it's
worth actually calls these records so we
might use these words interchangeably
but a message or a record in Kafka is
made up of four attributes importantly
we have the key and we have the value uh
and then we have a time stamp this is
what determines the ordering if none is
specified then we just use the machine
time and then we have some headers these
are just like HTTP headers the key value
pairs that you can specify some
additional information so how does this
work well you can actually go download
cfco on your local machine if you want
to right now and you can download uh
this CLI for it and so if you want to
interface with CFA via CLI you'd run a
command like this a CFA console producer
is the command we're going to write to
the topic my topic and then these
additional property Fields just talk
about how you should split up our string
inputs here into an actual message so
don't worry too much about them they
just say that you should parse or
separate on colon and what this is going
to do is it's going to add two messages
the First with a key of one or key1
excuse me and a value of hello cfco with
key and the second key is key2 and
another message with a different key so
now both of those message messages are
on our queue uh looking quickly if you
don't want to use the CLI of course you
can use any of the common libraries that
exist for all of the popular languages
this is Kafka JS for JavaScript and you
can see how simple it is you just create
a producer and then you write producer.
send and you send it to a topic and a
list of messages that you want to send
to the
CFA so the second thing that happens
then is that once the CFA cluster
receives that message it needs to
determine where it should go put it so
it has to determine where it should put
it so it has to determine what the topic
is what the broker and what the
partition is and the way that that works
is that it goes through this flow when
it gets the message it first determines
does that message have a key and so the
key also known as the partition key is
What determines which partition the data
should go on in our motivating example
this partition key was like the ID or
the name of the game Argentina versus
Brazil for example now if you don't
specify a key which is okay keys are
optional then we're just going to round
robin or randomly assign this message to
one of the partitions this works for
simple cases but not if you really need
to scale but that's this path now the
common path is that you did specify a
key so you have a way that you want this
to be partitioned and so what we do is
that we take that key we hash it this is
actually using I believe a murmur hash
which is just a a fast hash function and
then we take the modulo of that hash
over the number of partitions that we
have here say n and this is going to
give us a number and that number is
going to correspond to the partition so
now for example we know that Argentina
versus Brazil should go to partition
five and of course uh this is
deterministic so the next event that
comes in here with a key of Argentina
versus Brazil will also need to go to
partition five in this hash function
plus the modulo will ensure that it does
and so now we have the partition that it
needs to go to but the first thing that
we need to do is we need to identify
what broker or what server does that
partition exist on and so there's a
controller that exists in the CFA
cluster that has some mapping it keeps
the mapping uh of partitions to Brokers
and we're going to look that up it's
like a simple hashmap and it's going to
tell us which broker we want to send it
to we're going to send it to that broker
that broker is going to receive it and
append it to that append Only log file
and so everything that happens here is
kind of uh behind the scenes it happens
native to the CFA cluster this is native
to CFA code you can read it it's open
source but you don't really need to
worry about this all that you worry
about is setting the appropriate key in
order to determine how we partition so
when the broker appends the message to
the correct partition what happens is
that it just appends that message to
that append Only log file and that log
file looks something like this you have
message A B C all the way through e and
we just keep adding messages and each of
these have a corresponding offset 0 1 2
3 Etc and so now as consumers want to
consume a message they consume a message
by specifying the offset of the last
message that they read so if they
already read message a they know that
they've consumed message a with offset
zero same too with message B you know if
they've already read message B and
message a then they know their latest
offset was one and they're going to ask
then for offset two the next time that
they want to go uh read from the
queue um now what happens if for example
that produc or that consumer excuse me
went down and it no longer knows its own
offset it doesn't know the last offset
that it read well the way that this
works is that it's going to periodically
commit its offsets actually to Kafka and
this is important because now Kafka
maintains what the latest offset was
that was red and in the case where we
have a consumer group like we had above
then consumer 2 can read uh and ask
Kafka for the next message and Kafka
knows what offsets have already been
read by the other consumers in the
consumer group and it can give you the
latest message and then commit uh that
offset so everybody else knows uh you
know what the latest offset that has
been read is so we read the message from
Kafka we get that message back we
maintain the current offset locally in
the consumer periodically we commit
those offsets and then in case of
failure or restarts we can just resume
reading from exactly where we left off
because we know the offset that we last
read
from similar to the apis for producers
just a quick look here if you want to
consume using the CLI then you have a
CFA console consume commands here uh we
want to consume from topic my topic we
can say that we want to consume from the
beginning we could also consume from a
specific offset and of course that'll
return to us the two messages that we
added earlier now you also have the CFA
JS library look at what happens here
importantly we subscribe that's the
terminology we subscribe to a topic so
this consumer subscribed to topic my
topic and then for each new message that
comes in on that topic in this case
we're just going to print them out and
so similarly we're going to just print
out those messages and we'll get those
there so let's tie it all together now
and just quickly the last concept that
I'll only briefly introduce is that in
order to ensure durability and
availability we have a robust
replication mechanism in CFA and so each
partition is designed a leader replica
like this one here and it resigns on one
of the Brokers and that leader replica
is responsible for handling all the read
and write requests to the partition but
the assignment of the leader replica is
managed centrally by some cluster
controller which ensures that each
partition's leader replica is
effectively distributed across the
cluster to balance the load and then
importantly we have those followers and
so for example we got a follower for
partition one right here uh and these
can reside on the same or different
Brokers but these followers don't handle
direct client requests instead they just
passively replicate the data from the
leader and by replicating the messages
received by the leader these followers
are just acting like a backup and
they're ready to take over if the leader
happens to go down so let's look at
everything that we have here we have our
producers The Producers interface with
our CFA cluster via that producer API
that we looked at our CFA cluster is
made up of Brokers which are just
servers and our case we have two of them
existing on these servers are a bunch of
partitions which are just append only
log files and then these partitions are
grouped logically or labeled based on a
topic and so in this case we have topic
a and topic B and then consumers consume
via that consumer API and they consume a
specific topic and so a consumer is
going to subscribe to say topic B and
it's going to read all of the messages
off of topic
B again as I mentioned earlier consumers
can be grouped into consumer groups and
this just makes sure that the consumers
in the consumer group don't uh read the
same message only once so they don't
read the same message twice any message
is read only
once now let's talk about when we would
use CFA in an interview so the first
time is any time that you would need a
message CU well what could those times
look like let's look at a couple
examples so the first is if processing
can be done asynchronously in a key
example of that is with YouTube so with
YouTube when you upload a new video you
upload that full video and you store
that video in S3 but then you need to
transcode that video basically take that
video and put it into 480p 720p 1080p
Etc so that it can be streamed at
different qualities on all different
devices but this transcoding process
takes a while and it's going to happen
asynchronously the user doesn't need a
synchronous response so what we do is
that we put these messages in CFA this
message could look something like like
you know video ID 123 and a link to the
videos uh the actual video in S3 and
then our consumer is our transcoders so
they pull those messages off they
download the video from S3 they do all
their expensive transcoding and they
store it back in S3 so because this
processing could be done asynchronously
Kafka was a great buffer in between
there another is when we need in order
message processing so you can imagine in
an event booking service like Ticket
Master for really popular event we might
want to put people under a waiting queue
and only let people off of this waiting
queue in groups of say a 100 or so every
so often and this is to make sure that
there's not a bunch of contention all at
once for the same seats so what we can
do is that when a user tries to view
that popular event we could put them on
Kafka on our waiting queue so our event
service here is our producer and then
our event service is also our consumer
so periodically maybe every five minutes
in the simplest case one minute uh we
can pull the next 100 off of this que
and then let our clients know that it's
their turn uh to actually start to book
this event now of course these diagrams
are oversimplifications on our website
we have detailed breakdowns of each of
these problems that I'm mentioning that
you should check out if you want more
details on these problems
specifically uh the other one here as it
pertains to message cues is when you
want to decouple the producer and the
consumer and the reason that you
typically want to do that is because you
want to scale them independently you
want to horizontally scale them
independently and so in this this case
you can imagine that if we're running a
competition for a site like leak code
where users submit their code via
competition we need to run their code
and then give them the response um what
could happen is that a bunch of users
could submit their submission all at
once maybe 100,000 users or something
like this and so we can scale this
primary server accordingly we can have a
ton of these horizontally scaled boom
boom boom boom boom right whatever you
get the
picture um and then they're just going
to put it on CFA and the reason for this
is because we don't want to scale these
guys uh you know these servers that are
actually doing the running of the code
the containers U maybe because we're
cost sensitive and so we can scale just
this one put them on a CFA Q the worker
is going to pull it off the que and then
give it to one of these guys to run or
maybe these guys are just the workers
themselves so we don't need the
intermediary but in this case we could
scale the primary server in order to
handle that burst and there can only be
one or two each of these uh so they
don't have to scale
now the other popular use case not a
message CU but very similarly would be a
stream and so a stream is used uh when
you need to process a lot of data in
real time you can imagine that with the
queue the consumer gets to choose when
it wants to read off of the queue and
things can exist in the que for a long
time in the case of a stream you have
just kind of an infinite stream of data
that's being produced onto CFA and you
need to be consuming it largely as quick
as possible in order to give your users
some realtime statistics or updates and
so one common example is a problem again
that's broken down on our website called
ad click aggregator and so when a user
clicks an add we put that click saying
they click that Nike ad on our CFA que
and then we have some consumer in this
case it's Flink that's going to be
reading off of this stream in real time
and aggregating those so that we can
tell our advertisers how many times
their ad has been
clicked and the other one here is that
if we want a stream of messages to be
processed by multiple consumers
simultaneously
this is also known as Pub sub and so
what can happen here useful for like
things like messenger and FB live again
two that are broken down on our website
is that if we have a commenter who
leaves a comment on a live video then we
can put that comment on Kafka as a pub
sub and then we're going to have all of
these other services servers excuse me
that are connected still to the users
that are watching that live video and
they're subscribed to this stream and if
they see a new comment coming on a live
video that they know that their user
their client is subscribed to then
they're going to read it and they're
going to send that user that new comment
so that it looks like that comment
showed up in real time to that user so
that's another example these Pub Subs uh
for which this is
useful so now we're going to spend some
time talking about what you should know
about CFA for deep Dives in interviews
if you've read any of the content on
hello interview or if you've watched any
of our YouTube videos then you know our
recommended framework ends with first
documenting a highle design of the
system and then using that highle design
in order to expand upon it by going deep
in a handful of areas and this is where
you show off that technical depth or
that technical excellence and so if you
introduce Kafka into your system it may
be a place where you want to show some
of that technical depth and there are
really four areas that it typically
makes sense to do this of course this
list isn't exhaustive but I found in the
many hundreds of interviews that I've
done that that this kind of makes up the
majority of the follow-up questions you
may see
and so the first is scalability how do
you scale the system and consequentially
how do you scale Kafka the second is
Fault tolerance and durability the third
is errors and retries what happens when
things go wrong for four is performance
optimizations so this is for
specifically those realtime use cases
when you have a lot of events how do you
make sure that your throughput is as
high as possible and then the fifth is
retention policies this is particularly
to minimize the amount of storage that's
persisted on disk so those are the five
things that we're going to go into and
we're going to start with scalability
and so scalability is by far the most
common follow-up question that you're
going to get in a system design
interview as it pertains to Kafka it's
that question of how is this going to
scale usually that's in the context of
the full system and Kafka being a part
of your system will require some
attention there and so before we talk
about how it scales there are some
constraints that are worth knowing and
so the first one here is that actually
there's no limit on the maximum size of
a message in Kafka Beyond of course the
natural Hardware limits of course but it
is highly advised for you to keep those
messages under 1 Megabyte this is so
that you can ensure Optimal Performance
otherwise you're going to overwhelm
Network or memory and a common mistake
that I see candidates make all the time
is they put the entire media blob on
Kafka so let's let's draw out an example
here if you remember that YouTube
example that we discussed earlier you
have some Kafka q and it's responsible
for uh storing videos or at least
pointers to videos as we'll see in a
second that then a transcoder worker is
going to use in order to transcode them
into different resolutions so this works
on different devices right so this is
the general flow and so in the Bad Case
what you're going to do is you're going
to have a message where the key is
something like video ID and then the
value is the video blob itself and that
video blob of course is huge that could
be up to a gigabyte and so that's a huge
message here on CFA and so this clearly
is bad and something that I see all the
time now the good alternative over here
is that instead what you do is that you
minimize the size of the message on CFA
and maybe you make this just an S3 URL
and so now you have S3 here when the uh
producer was going to put something on
Kafka it also writ that wrote that video
to S3 maybe that happened earlier in
your system as well ideally and then
what your transcoder is going to do is
it's going to go up to S3 download that
video and then do the transcoding and
it's going to download it just via that
S3 URL and so now the the only thing on
Kafka is the video ID small 16 bytes and
an S3 URL also pretty small so this is a
common anti pattern that I see
candidates to all the time and is
something that you definitely want to
avoid now the other constraint worth
mentioning is that uh one broker and
this is for kind of good Hardware highly
optimized Hardware a single broker can
store about a terabyte of data so a
terabyte worth of messages and can
handle about 10,000 messages per second
so no this is very handwavy uh it
totally depends on the hardware it
totally depends on the size of the
message but in an interview if you're
doing back of the envelope estimations
these are kind of good baselines for you
to use here and then in your interview
you should do the math you should see
does your system exceed this um and then
if it doesn't maybe you don't need to
worry about scaling it all so easy say
that to your interviewer it's fine I'm
gonna have a single broker here no
problem at all we can handle this scale
now uh in the case that you do need to
scale what should you do so if you need
to scale then there's two steps the
first is of course you're going to
introduce more Brokers you're going to
introduce more servers more Brokers
means more memory means more disk which
means that you can store and process
more messages so that's step one step
two as we've discussed and it's the most
important step is that you need to
choose your partition key so this is
something that you're likely going to
spend a lot of time talking about in the
interview and you need to decide how
you're going to partition this data
across the Brokers and this is done by
choosing a key for your message messages
so if you choose a bad key then you can
end up with a hot partition or all of
your data showing up on a single
partition that's overwhelmed with
traffic um and other partitions that get
no data good keys of course are ones
that evenly distribute across the
partition
space now I want to talk about handling
hot partitions but actually before I do
that let me just mention that it's worth
noting that nowadays many of these
scaling considerations Are Made Easy via
managed cfus Services you have like uh
confluent Cloud AWS msk are popular ones
and these are managed Services hosted by
Cloud providers that handle kind of all
of these scaling things for you for the
most part you're still going to need to
pick your own partition key but
everything else is done largely for you
will automatically scale up Brokers for
example so that's good to know you can
even mention it in your interview that
you're going to use a managed instance
but it's still really important for you
to understand the underlying
Concepts okay so back to that that hot
partition how do we handle hot
partitions again a hot partition is that
you can imagine that you've created a
partition key now uh for which
everything is going to a single
partition a single log file and a single
broker and it's overwhelmed right so um
I think a good example here um is to
consider an adclick aggregator so an ad
click aggregator in that question which
is a really common question what you
have is a stream of data where that data
is that user a clicked on ADD B right
and then we take that stream of clicks
and we aggregate them so that
advertisers can understand the metrics
of how often their ads are being clicked
on naturally what you would do is you
would Partition by ad ID but then let's
say that Nike launches a new LeBron
James ad then you better believe that
that partition for that Nike ad is now
overwhelmed with traffic and you're
going to have a h hot partition on your
hands and so how do we handle it here
those three steps that we can do the
first and most obvious but maybe the
easy way out is that you can always just
remove the key from your messages in
doing so you're going to just randomly
evenly distribute your messages across
partitions in the case where you don't
care about ordering at all this is fine
this would work sometimes it seems too
simple but if you don't need ordering
this is a great option now second um is
that you can and this is the most common
that you can add a compound key so where
our key was ad ID we can make our ad ID
colon and then something else and so
really common thing to do is let's say
that we want to take our Nike ad and we
want it to be partitioned across instead
of going to a single partition 10 more
partitions so we can add a random number
here between one and 10 and this is now
our key add ID colon random number 1
through 10 and this is going to make
sure that now the message for these Nike
ads are split across 10 different
partitions and thus reducing kind of
that uh you know that strain on that
single hot partition another thing that
you can do is you can append another
value to it say the user ID or even you
know the prefix of some user ID if this
is sequential um but these compound keys
are effective for just taking a single
hot partition and then spreading it out
now of course you're going to have to
have some logic in the producer that
understands which partitions are hot and
then does this concatenation for just
the keys on those partitions you also
then have consequences to the consumers
in that of course now there's no
ordering across for example these 10
these are all things you have to keep in
mind and then the other option here is
back pressure and so this is pretty
simple our producer can just understand
that a given partition a given topic is
overwhelmed at the moment and we're
going to slow down our rate of
production this does not work for kind
of a large number of services but for
some it's a reasonable thing to consider
so next up we're going to talk about
fault tolerance and durability one of
the reasons that you might have chose
cafin your interview is because it has
really strong guarantees on durability
and we talked a bit about how it does
that so I'm not going to go into too
much more detail there if you remember
we have a leader partition and then
there's a number of follower partitions
which are there to take over in case the
leader ever goes down now the things
that are more important here is that
there's two relevant settings this is
kind of like the how would you actually
do this and so when you set up a CFA
cluster you have a config file and two
of the settings are AXS and replication
Factor ax is just saying how long do we
have to wait or how many followers
excuse me need to acknowledge that
they've gotten a message before we can
keep going before we can keep moving and
so a all is maximum durability this
means that every single follower needs
to acknowledge that they also got the
message and then we can say that we got
this message we'll take the next message
now uh the trade-off here is of course
durability versus performance if you
have your ax value set to fewer then
we're only going to wait for at least
you know for example one follower to
acknowledge it and then we can move
quicker but it may be that the other
ones didn't actually get it in time in
case something goes down hopefully that
makes sense the second is that
replication Factor this is just how many
followers you're going to have this is
also set in the config and the default
is three if you want more durability you
can increase this number if you want to
maximize uh you know or or take
advantage of limited space for example
then you could make this number smaller
but just know that you're going to be
less durable durable so that's something
you could talk about in the interview um
now what happens when a consumer goes
down let me go over here the first thing
that I'll say is that Kafka is usually
thought of as always available so if you
ever get a question from your
interviewer like what happens if CFA
goes down uh this actually isn't very
realistic it's not a great question you
may even want to gently push back on the
interviewer if they ask this like KF
doesn't go down and the reason that it
doesn't go down is because the
durability guarantees that we just
discussed a more realistic question is
this what happens when a consumer goes
down and so as you remember if we have
the CFA cluster here our consumer first
reads a message and then it gets that
offset of the message that it just read
and it comit commits it back to Kafka
excuse me tripping over my words a
little bit it commits it back to Kafka
so if it just read message 100 it tells
kafa I read message 100 and then if it
were to go down it's going to come back
up and it's going to pick back up where
it left off at message 100 if you have a
consumer group so maybe you have three
of these here and one of them goes down
then they're all responsible for
different partition ranges is the way
that it works so if one of them goes
down then you need to have a rebalancing
and these two need to get different
ranges um of partitions that they're
going to need to read from and that's
all going to be handled by the Kafka
cluster it's going to update the
consumer on the new ranges the the last
thing that I'll mention here is that
it's really important when you decide to
commit your offset so committing the
offset is you saying the consumer has
finished the task that it needed to do
so in the case of WebCrawler for example
we don't commit our offset until we know
and have gotten confirmation that the
HTML that we downloaded from the website
we're scraping has been stored in S3 at
that point our job is confirmed to be
done and we can commit the offset the
reason that we wouldn't commit the
offset before we know that the uh data
was stored in S3 is because then if our
consumer went down let's say that our
consumer pulled the message immediately
committed the offset and then tried to
parse uh pull the data from the internet
internet and store it in S3 again if our
consumer then went down then now we've
committed our offset already and we're
going to think that we already processed
that page when we didn't so when you
commit the offset is important and it
should be once you're done with any
logical set of work this is why you
really want to keep your consumer the
amount of work that they do here as
small as possible now let's talk about
errors and retries so first it's
important to note that cfet self-
handles most of the reliability as we
saw above um but our system May Fail
getting messages into or out of CFA so
that's why we need to handle these
scenarios gracefully either producer
retries or consumer retries specifically
so on the producer side it's pretty
straightforward we might fail to get a
message into the CAF cluster due to
network issues or broker unavailability
or any of these things and to handle
this uh CFA producer API supports a
couple of configurations that allow us
to retry gracefully so in this case
we've enabled up to five retries and we
wait 100 milliseconds in between each of
those tries
there's additional Keys here or Fields
configurations that can be used for like
exponential retries but the general
concept is simple here just keep trying
until you get an acknowledgement from
the CFA broker that we've received this
message now importantly you'll want to
ensure that you enable item potent
producer mode and this is to avoid
duplicate messages when retries are
enabled so this just ensures that
messages are only sent Once In the case
we incorrectly think that they weren't
sent so you want to make sure that that
guy's there now what's more interesting
is these consumer retries so let's paint
an example here we'll use WebCrawler
again this is our our CFA Q or our Kafka
broker and it's storing URLs of websites
that we need to crawl our consumer pulls
these URLs and then goes and fetches
them from the internet in order to get
that HTML and store it off into some
blob storage like S3 now the website's a
dirty place and so maybe this main topic
which has all of the URLs that we need
to fetch we pull them we go try to get
it from the internet and that sites down
so Kafka actually does not support
consumer retries out of the box AWS sqs
uh kind of an alternate Cloud message
cue does and that's interesting in your
system design interviews if you need
consumer retries you may want to
consider sqs but the common pattern
that's used and you can do it yourself
is that you pull off that main topic you
do whatever you need to do and if it
fails then you're going to place it on a
retry topic after the first end failures
so maybe I put a new message on a new
topic for retries specifically where
that message says the number of retries
and then either the same consumer or a
different consumer can be pulling off of
that retry topic and for end times just
adding it back to that topic for us to
retry now eventually if that n the
number of retries exceeds some value
that we set say five then we know that
it's failed and we can put it on what's
called a dead letter q and so this can
just be another topic we call our dlq
topic and no consumer reads off of this
it just sits there largely indefinitely
Or until it's purged so that some
engineer or somebody on the team can go
look at these ones that failed if they
want to and try to do some debuging so
that's how we're going to handle
producer and consumer retries
respectively now especially when we're
using cfas a stream to process realtime
data we need to be mindful of the
performance and the throughput so that
we can process messages as quickly as
possible and so two things that we have
at our disposal to do this both on the
producer side the first is that we can
batch messages in the producer so this
is that we have fewer requests and this
again is just a configuration on the
producer so we can set you know the
maximum batch size in bytes and the
maximum time to wait before sending a
batch and so what this is going to do is
it's going to just aggregate a bunch of
messages within this time period or
until this size is reached and then it's
going to send a single request to the
ctica broker with all of those
messages and then the second thing that
we can do is we can compress messages in
the producer and so this compression can
happen for you via this producer SDK
here as well at least with CFA JS and
you can just specify for example gzip
that's your compression algorithm and so
each message is going to be compressed
which makes them smaller which means
that we have fewer bytes to send over
the wire so both of these things by
batching messages that have fewer
requests and by compressing them to have
smaller data we're increasing
throughput now importantly arguably the
biggest impact you can have on
performance comes comes back as it
always does to the choice of that
partition key so the goal is to maximize
parallelism by ensuring that messages
are evenly distributed across all of
those partitions and across all those
Brokers so in you're interview
discussing the partitioning strategy or
the key that you're going to use as we
go into above should always be the first
place that you start the last thing that
we'll touch on briefly is the retention
policy very simply this is how long are
we going to keep messages around before
we purge them and so Kafka topics this
is configured per topic have a retention
policy that determines this it
determines how long messages are
retained in those logs and this is
configured via two settings the first is
retention. Ms this determines how long
we should keep the message in
milliseconds and the default if you
don't change anything is seven days and
the second one is retention. bytes so
this is basically saying at what size
when the log gets to how many bytes
should we start to purge older messages
the default here is 1 gabes and so it's
whichever of these comes first if the
log becomes 1 gab then we start to purge
if 7 days have passed then we'll delete
those older messages and so in your
interview you may be asked to design a
system that needs to store messages for
a longer period of time than this you
can imagine that you need to replay
events for some reason even a month two
months later uh in this case you can
configure the retention policy to keep
those messages for a longer duration
you'll just want to be mindful and call
out in your interview the impact that
that's going to have to storage costs
and to
Performance all right great job everyone
everyone and congratulations if you made
it this far hopefully you found this
informative uh and you should be well
equipped now to be able to know when to
use CFA in those upcoming interviews as
well as respond to any follow-ups from
your interviewer or lead any deep Dives
uh we're going to continue posting both
written content and videos so keep an
eye out for future deep Dives we've
posted Reedus already of course we just
went over CFA we'll have more in the
future as well as the breakdowns to some
of the commonly asked system design
questions we've also started posting
some interviews with other folks so
there was an interview between Stefan my
co-founder uh and Christian who's an em
or an engineering manager at meta you
should go check that out if you haven't
seen it already super informative two
really smart guys um now if you have any
questions or you want to point out
anything that I might have gotten wrong
or just say hi feel free to leave a
comment below I try to get those get to
those as quickly as possible um so feel
free to to say what's up there and then
the last thing is that if you want to
practice with me or somebody like me
head over to hello interview.com and
consider scheduling a mock interview so
of course I'm bias um but I get messages
from candidates every single day where
they're effusive about how helpful the
mock interviews were in their
preparation and how would help them
eventually land a role at one of these
major tech companies and so I'm fully
bought in that these are kind of some of
the most effective means of preparation
possible um and so if it's something
that's interesting to you head over
there check it out we'd love to get a
chance to work with you all right uh
thanks so much and as always good luck
with those upcoming interviews